# Breast Cancer Classification Using Deep Neural Networks
---
Early diagnosis of any disease can be curable with a little amount of human effort. Most of the people fail to detect their disease before it becomes chronic. It leads to increase in death rate around the world. Breast cancer is one of the diseases that could be cured when the disease identified at earlier stages before it is spreading across all the parts of the body. The medical practitioner may diagnose the diseases mistakenly due to misinterpretation. The computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) is an automated assistance for practitioners that will produce accurate results to analyze the criticality of the diseases. This chapter presents a CAD system to perform automated diagnosis for breast cancer. This method employed deep neural network (DNN) as classifier model and recursive feature elimination (RFE) for feature selection. DNN with multiple layers of processing attained higher classification rate than SVM. So, the researchers used deep learning method for hyper-spectral data classification. This chapter used DNN to learn deep features of data. The DNN with multiple layers of processing is applied to classify the breast cancer data. The system was experimented on Wisconsin Breast Cancer Dataset (WBCD) from UCI repository. The dataset partitioned into different sets of train-test split. The performance of the system is measured based on accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, precision, and recall. From the results, the accuracy obtained 98.62%, which is better than other state-of-the-art methods. The results show that the system is comparatively outperformed than the existing system.

